# UpennDataProject1
## Authors
Harrison Lee, Chau Nguyen, Julius Bzozowski, Temi Olufemi

# Summary of project
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As a group, we were motivated to perform our data analysis on a topic that could provide real-world data and potentially lead to positive change. Our research was based around the general concept of: “Does access to public transit and free/reduced cost lunches have an effect on the future-readiness of students in the state of Michigan?”. We narrowed this project down to Michigan only, for the sake of the timeline we had to work with. Cleaning this data was challenging, as we had to merge several different datasets and even convert an unlabeled .txt file into a clean dataset of its own. We were interested to learn more about this topic because of our shared passion for accessibility to education as well as upward mobility.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; There were a couple parts of this project of note. The base level of this project was comparing how access to public transportation and Free/Reduced Lunches impacted students education (College Readiness by SAT Score and Graduation Rate). Through this project, we were able to draw a couple of data-backed conclusions. The first one is that public-transit is largely based around the bigger cities. Simply put, a lot of rural or suburban areas have no reasonble access to transportation, for the scope of the project we chose to narrow down on places that did have at least one transportation stop within the zipcode.  As we dug deeper, a clearer picture came into focus via data analysis and mapping: there is a strong negative correlation between the percentage of students who qualify for free/reduced lunch (while also having large access to public transportation) and their college readiness and graduation rate. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;However, it is also important to keep in mind that this one negative correlation alone is not the only factor that effects the lower test scores and college readiness of students. We learned that the public transport stops may lead to interesting conclusions, however need to control and understand other factors within the population is important. Socio-economic factors such as income, household status, crime rates within their living areas and distance needed to travel to the school are some of the factors that could have more insight. The places analyzed largely had large amount of poverty, as evidenced by some of our visualizations with respect to Free/Reduced cost Lunch for students. Students living in poverty may benefit from safer and better transportation, but there are other factors that can lead them to struggle in college readiness and graduation rate. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We believe that our project stands out because of the depth of the data-cleaning, the real-world implications and usage, the visual appeal of our data analysis, as well as our multitude of different data visualizations. The charts accurately represent the data and the visualizations are appropriate for trying to make the questions, answers, and comparisons easy to understand. While it did not prove our hypothesis, it was a good 'start' in a direction for further questions to be asked and answered around this issue. 